README.md, before:

# Sketch-AI

This document provides instructions for the installation and usage of Sketch-AI, an OpenAI based Project.

## Docker Guide

### Step 1: Export your OpenAI API Key

To retrieve sketch drawings based on your description, export your OpenAI API key by following these steps:

1. Go to the base directory of your project repository.
2. Create a new file `.env`.
3. Enter your OpenAI and Azure API keys in the new `.env` file as shown: \
    `OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key` \
    `AZURE_OPENAI_KEY=your-key` \
    `AZURE_OPENAI_GPT4_KEY=your-key`

### Step 2: Prepare databases

#### ChromaDB

Ensure there is a database folder `db/chroma-db`.

#### Postgresql

Ensure there is a sql dump `db/postgresql_backup.sql`.

Or create a dump of local SQL database:

```sh
pg_dump -h 127.0.0.1 -U postgres -W postgres > db/postgresql_backup.sql
```

### Step 3: Build the docker image

```sh
docker build -t sketch-ai .
```

### Step 3: Run the sketch-ai with docker

#### Quick Start

* Start chatbot

```sh
./run.sh
```

* Ask one question from terminal with default LLM (GPT-4, Azure)

```sh
./run.sh chat_with_data.py -p "How many axes does the robot Franka Emika production have?"
```

* Ask one question from terminal with local LLM

```sh
# On macOS
./run.sh chat_with_data.py -l local -m local --local-llm-address host.docker.internal --local-llm-port 8080 -p "How many axes does the robot Franka Emika production have?"

# On linux
./run.sh chat_with_data.py -l local -m local --local-llm-address localhost --local-llm-port 8080 -p "How many axes does the robot Franka Emika production have?"
```

* Run an arbitrary python script in the docker container

```sh
# Run an example script (This works only on macOS. To make it work on linux, you need to change the host.docker.internal to localhost.)
./run.sh examples/open_ai_like.py
```

#### Manual

```sh
# Start docker container
docker run --network host --name sketch-ai-container -ti sketch-ai
```

### Step 4 [Optional]: Upload to AWS

```sh
# Check current container id, e.g. 29cff4a364d4
docker ps -a

# Commit the changes to new image
docker commit 29cff4a364d4 sketch-ai-filled

# Push new changes to AWS container
aws lightsail push-container-image --region eu-central-1 --service-name sketch-ai-aws-container --label sketch-ai-gradio --image sketch-ai-filled:latest

# Update deployment on AWS to use new image
```


## Manual Installation Guide

### Step 1: Export your OpenAI API Key

To retrieve sketch drawings based on your description, export your OpenAI API key by following these steps:

1. Go to the base directory of your project repository.
2. Create a new file `.env`.
3. Enter your OpenAI API key in the new `.env` file as shown: `OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key`

### Step 2: Establish a Virtual Environment

There are two commonly used options for setting up a virtual environment - Conda and venv. These help to avoid potential conflicts between global Python environment and project-level dependencies.

#### Option 1: Creating a Virtual Environment using Conda [RECOMMENDED]

To use Conda for establishing your virtual environment, follow these steps:

1. Download Miniconda installer [here](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/index.html) and run it to install Conda.

2. After successful installation, open a terminal and run the following commands:

    ```bash
    # Creates a new Conda virtual environment named openai-env
    conda create -n openai-env python=3.10

    # Activates the Conda virtual environment named openai-env
    conda activate openai-env
    ```

#### Option 2: Creating a Virtual Environment using venv

If you prefer using venv, follow these steps:

Open a terminal and execute the given commands to set up a virtual environment using Python3 venv:

```bash
# Installs the 'venv' module and sqlite
sudo apt install python3.10-venv sqlite

# Navigate to your project's root directory
cd sketch-ai

# Creates a new venv named openai-env
python3 -m venv openai-env

# Activates the venv named openai-env
source openai-env/bin/activate
```

### Step 3: Installing the Project Dependencies

The project relies on certain Python packages that are listed in the file `requirements.txt`.

Activate your virtual environment and install these packages using pip by executing the following commands:

```bash
cd sketch-ai
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

After executing these commands, your project setup is complete.

## Usage Guide

### Chat with data

Once the setup is complete, you can start using the project.

Try out `chat_with_data.py` with parallel ReAct (custom implementation):

```bash
python3 chat_with_data.py
```

or with sequential ReAct (default implementation of llamaindex):

```bash
python3 chat_with_data.py -s
```


Use ```-r ``` to ativate re-ranking.

```bash
python3 chat_with_data.py -r
```


### Load data
To load new data to SQL and vector database use ```load_data.py```:

```bash
python3 load_data.py -j docs/franka/production/hw/hw.json
```

```bash
python3 load_data.py -j docs/ur/ur3e/hw/hw.json
```

Use ```-r ``` to ativate re-ranking.

```bash
python3 load_data.py -j docs/franka/production/sw/sw.json -r
```

#### Use json to load data

To load the data from different sources for a component, create a ```json``` file with minimal information about component.

##### For Hardware

```json
{
    "company_name": "Franka Emika",
    "product_name": "Franka Production 3",
    "document_type": "ROBOT_ARM",
    "pdf_urls": [
        "https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=12-9k2hkZ8scDtjSXbLt8sEjvVP4fYbLE"
    ],
    "web_urls": [
        "https://www.franka.de/production/"
    ],
    "load_pdfs": true,
    "load_urls": true
}
```

##### For Software


```json
{
    "company_name": "Franka Emika",
    "product_name": "Franka Production 3",
    "document_type": "SOFTWARE",
    "pdf_urls": [
        ""
    ],
    "web_urls": [
        "https://frankaemika.github.io/docs/"
    ],
    "load_pdfs": false,
    "load_urls": true
}
```

##### Batch load

```bash
python3 batch_load.py
```


## Useful Links

* [Using langchain for Question Answering on Own Data](https://medium.com/@onkarmishra/using-langchain-for-question-answering-on-own-data-3af0a82789ed)
* [LlamaIndex Webinar: Document Metadata and Local Models for Better, Faster Retrieval](https://youtu.be/njzB6fm0U8g?si=h8EnIgBTsbXatoXS&t=140)
* [A quick guide to the high-level concepts of LlamaIndex](https://gpt-index.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/concepts.html)

Commit message:

feat: migrate to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server

README.md, after:

# Sketch-AI

This document provides instructions for the installation and usage of Sketch-AI, an OpenAI based Project.

## Docker Guide

### Step 1: Export your OpenAI API Key

To retrieve sketch drawings based on your description, export your OpenAI API key by following these steps:

1. Go to the base directory of your project repository.
2. Create a new file `.env`.
3. Enter your OpenAI and Azure API keys in the new `.env` file as shown: \
    `OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key` \
    `AZURE_OPENAI_KEY=your-key` \
    `AZURE_OPENAI_GPT4_KEY=your-key`

### Step 2: Prepare databases

#### ChromaDB

Ensure there is a database folder `db/chroma-db`.

#### Postgresql

For now, we hard code the login credentials to connect to our Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.

### Step 3: Build the docker image

```sh
docker build -t sketch-ai .
```

### Step 3: Run the sketch-ai with docker

#### Quick Start

* Start chatbot

```sh
./run.sh
```

* Ask one question from terminal with default LLM (GPT-4, Azure)

```sh
./run.sh chat_with_data.py -p "How many axes does the robot Franka Emika production have?"
```

* Ask one question from terminal with local LLM

```sh
# On macOS
./run.sh chat_with_data.py -l local -m local --local-llm-address host.docker.internal --local-llm-port 8080 -p "How many axes does the robot Franka Emika production have?"

# On linux
./run.sh chat_with_data.py -l local -m local --local-llm-address localhost --local-llm-port 8080 -p "How many axes does the robot Franka Emika production have?"
```

* Run an arbitrary python script in the docker container

```sh
# Run an example script (This works only on macOS. To make it work on linux, you need to change the host.docker.internal to localhost.)
./run.sh examples/open_ai_like.py
```

#### Manual

```sh
# Start docker container
docker run --network host --name sketch-ai-container -ti sketch-ai
```

### Step 4 [Optional]: Upload to AWS

```sh
# Check current container id, e.g. 29cff4a364d4
docker ps -a

# Commit the changes to new image
docker commit 29cff4a364d4 sketch-ai-filled

# Push new changes to AWS container
aws lightsail push-container-image --region eu-central-1 --service-name sketch-ai-aws-container --label sketch-ai-gradio --image sketch-ai-filled:latest

# Update deployment on AWS to use new image
```


## Manual Installation Guide

### Step 1: Export your OpenAI API Key

To retrieve sketch drawings based on your description, export your OpenAI API key by following these steps:

1. Go to the base directory of your project repository.
2. Create a new file `.env`.
3. Enter your OpenAI API key in the new `.env` file as shown: `OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key`

### Step 2: Establish a Virtual Environment

There are two commonly used options for setting up a virtual environment - Conda and venv. These help to avoid potential conflicts between global Python environment and project-level dependencies.

#### Option 1: Creating a Virtual Environment using Conda [RECOMMENDED]

To use Conda for establishing your virtual environment, follow these steps:

1. Download Miniconda installer [here](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/index.html) and run it to install Conda.

2. After successful installation, open a terminal and run the following commands:

    ```bash
    # Creates a new Conda virtual environment named openai-env
    conda create -n openai-env python=3.10

    # Activates the Conda virtual environment named openai-env
    conda activate openai-env
    ```

#### Option 2: Creating a Virtual Environment using venv

If you prefer using venv, follow these steps:

Open a terminal and execute the given commands to set up a virtual environment using Python3 venv:

```bash
# Installs the 'venv' module and sqlite
sudo apt install python3.10-venv sqlite

# Navigate to your project's root directory
cd sketch-ai

# Creates a new venv named openai-env
python3 -m venv openai-env

# Activates the venv named openai-env
source openai-env/bin/activate
```

### Step 3: Installing the Project Dependencies

The project relies on certain Python packages that are listed in the file `requirements.txt`.

Activate your virtual environment and install these packages using pip by executing the following commands:

```bash
cd sketch-ai
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

After executing these commands, your project setup is complete.

## Usage Guide

### Chat with data

Once the setup is complete, you can start using the project.

Try out `chat_with_data.py` with parallel ReAct (custom implementation):

```bash
python3 chat_with_data.py
```

or with sequential ReAct (default implementation of llamaindex):

```bash
python3 chat_with_data.py -s
```


Use ```-r ``` to ativate re-ranking.

```bash
python3 chat_with_data.py -r
```


### Load data
To load new data to SQL and vector database use ```load_data.py```:

```bash
python3 load_data.py -j docs/franka/production/hw/hw.json
```

```bash
python3 load_data.py -j docs/ur/ur3e/hw/hw.json
```

Use ```-r ``` to ativate re-ranking.

```bash
python3 load_data.py -j docs/franka/production/sw/sw.json -r
```

#### Use json to load data

To load the data from different sources for a component, create a ```json``` file with minimal information about component.

##### For Hardware

```json
{
    "company_name": "Franka Emika",
    "product_name": "Franka Production 3",
    "document_type": "ROBOT_ARM",
    "pdf_urls": [
        "https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=12-9k2hkZ8scDtjSXbLt8sEjvVP4fYbLE"
    ],
    "web_urls": [
        "https://www.franka.de/production/"
    ],
    "load_pdfs": true,
    "load_urls": true
}
```

##### For Software


```json
{
    "company_name": "Franka Emika",
    "product_name": "Franka Production 3",
    "document_type": "SOFTWARE",
    "pdf_urls": [
        ""
    ],
    "web_urls": [
        "https://frankaemika.github.io/docs/"
    ],
    "load_pdfs": false,
    "load_urls": true
}
```

##### Batch load

```bash
python3 batch_load.py
```


## Useful Links

* [Using langchain for Question Answering on Own Data](https://medium.com/@onkarmishra/using-langchain-for-question-answering-on-own-data-3af0a82789ed)
* [LlamaIndex Webinar: Document Metadata and Local Models for Better, Faster Retrieval](https://youtu.be/njzB6fm0U8g?si=h8EnIgBTsbXatoXS&t=140)
* [A quick guide to the high-level concepts of LlamaIndex](https://gpt-index.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/concepts.html)
